All right, so it's time.
We've used the knowledge that we've gained
to build our own little mini-framework.
Well, it's kinda small so
maybe it's a library.
Either way, let's go ahead and
use it on a webpage, since,
in this case, we're supporting jQuery.
And even if we weren't supporting jQuery,
we could use it maybe in some
other way on the server.
But, let's go.
Let's use our framework/library
that we just built.
So I have my immediately invoked function,
and I have all of my code.
By the way,
if you ever see a library that does this,
puts a semicolon before it,
that's another trick.
Just in case there's some other code,
some other
library that may be injected before
the Greetr.js in a script file,
maybe above it, that doesn't quite
finish out its semicolons properly.
You can also put a semicolon there
to make it more completely useful
in that even if the other code doesn't
finish its semicolons out properly,
a code that's used above here,
your code will still run fine.
I just wanted to make mention of that
because you will see it sometimes used.
All right so, I have it all now.
And so I'm gonna use it.
What I want to do is on
this little webpage.
I'm gonna pretend that this is a login.
If you're familiar with jQuery
what we're going to do is
add a click event to this button.
And when the button's clicked,
we'll set the greeting based
on the language that's chosen.
We'll create a new object with
the first name and last name.
And we'll just pretend that this
login let us get the first name and
last name of the person back from
the server or something like that.
And then we'll use our greeter to set
this heading with an ID of greeting.
And it needs to do so
with the language that's chosen.
And remember that the HTML greeting
method already sets up the jQuery object.
You just need to give it the selector.
Would you like to try that yourself,
if you're familiar with jQuery?
See if you can use the greeter,
we already have it set up here.
See if you can use it in order
to call the HTML greeting
with the appropriate selector, and
have the language set appropriately.
I'll let you give that a try.
All right,
if you're not familiar with jQuery or
if you already tried it,
just move along with me.
I need a click event on the login
button which has an ID of login.
So I'll just use jQuery, call the jQuery
function, pass it the login ID.
That pound sign means ID.
And a click event and
pass it a function object that I create
on the fly with the function expression.
Then I'm going to make a brand new object,
let's say login greeter.
Use g$ that's our object,
which is created.
And we'll know it's John Doe
because of the user name and
password that they gave or
something like that.
And I'm going to go ahead and
hide this entire
select and button,
this entire drop-down and button.
You didn't have to do this after this so
it has an ID.
And then I'm gonna take my login greeter,
I'm gonna set its language.
And you could have set the language here,
depending on how you want it, but
I'll just do it to show chainable methods.
I need the value of that select box.
It has an ID of lang and
I need it's value.
So I'm gonna pass its
value which is a string.
There's the value,
pass it to set language.
So now my login greeter object will
have a language of whatever was chosen.
And then I'll chain
the method HTML greeting,
I'll pass it the jQuery selector,
which it'll use to create a jQuery object.
And let's say I want a formal greeting,
so I'll say true.
Oh, and I'd like to log this to
the console while I'm at it with
a chainable method.
Got that?
So, when I click the button,
creates a new object using my function.
I'm just going to hide the UI there,
the interface.
And I'm going to set the language based
on what's chosen in the select box.
Chain a method that
actually updates that h1,
because it has an ID of greeting,
right there.
I want a formal one.
And I also want to log it to the console,
all in one line of code.
Let's try it.
Refresh.
Login.
Refresh, Spanish, login.
What about the console?
There it is.
Refresh.
Login.
I'm logged in.
Refresh.
Spanish, login.
And it logged it.
It worked!
We have nice, clean, safe reusable,
little mini frame work or
library that has some neat features
that mimic the structure of jQuery.
And its approach with these
chain-able methods in a function that
returns a new object without me
needing to use a new keyword.
Pretty neat, right?
What do you think?
We have our own reusable mini framework or
library.
And you could use this in your
apps right now if you wanted.
So here's your homework for the future.
Try adding another language.
See if you can do that.
Add support for another language.
Add some methods.
Add some alternate greetings.
Play with this,
see if it makes sense to you.
The last thing we'll do is
we'll add our comments.
Remember, it's JavaScript, and
in any programming language
it's important to have comments,
but especially with JavaScript.
So I'll just add a little
bit of commenting.
So I'll have a commented up usage and
inside the actual app
we have that as well.
Inside the actual framework and
library we have everything we need.
And you can take a look through
this code in the finished folder
of the Let's Use Our Framework zip file.
So, I hope you appreciate
how far you've come.
We've built our own mini framework
library by understanding JavaScript,
how it works under the hood.
And also by looking around a bit
at the source code of jQuery.
This is how you improve as a developer,
by understanding how things really work,
and looking at others' good code.
So enjoy it!
Remember that writing in
JavaScript can be an extremely
enjoyable experience as a developer.
Because of the nature of
the programming language.
So don't be afraid of learning
something new and trying it.
Enjoy your JavaScript development.
Enjoy all the parts of JavaScript,
even the weird ones.